# PLANT-DISEASE-DETECTION-WITH-KERAS


## ABSTRACT
The aim of this project is to introduce various machine learning techniques used to identify plant diseases based on images of diseased plants in order to recognize disease in plants from images and necessary in image processing and machine learning as they apply to the identification and categorization of plant diseases. We meticulously review more content and provide important standards. These characteristics include things like the size of the photo collection, preprocessing, segmentation techniques, classifier types, classifier resolution, and other things. To suggest and arrange our work on the classification and identification of plant diseases, we explain our study here. Then, based on the principal technical solution used in the method, each of these groups is split using machine learning techniques. Photos of plant disease samples were processed using CNN to extract color and texture information. The results show that the tensorflow is a very good tool for detecting and identifying plant-borne diseases in agricultural crops. Plant health is being impacted by rising pollution and other reasons. In our country, the agriculture sector is gradually decreasing. Farmers typically struggle dealing with several plant diseases  and in some cases  use inadequate pesticides that lower yield. Our everyday lives revolve heavily around food, but  plant diseases are gradually becoming more common. This system supports farmers by assisting in the early detection of  plant diseases like Corn- Common rust, Potato-Early blight and Tomato-Bacterial_spot Farmers can avoid severe loss through early plant disease detection with the assistance of this system.This algorithm analyzes a farm video and recognises the kinds of diseased plants that were present. CNN will be used to identify and categorize the types of diseases that plants have.The proposed methodology is intended to assist the farmer in the early detection of plant disease and aid in achieving good yield.
